Repetition and routine can be incredibly comforting, I love those things in life that can offer comfort. Being content and settled is a fantastic feeling. When I get up in the morning, I like to go to the bathroom and do my teeth, return to my room and put have a bowl of cereal. I change my sheets routinely, every three days because I adore the feeling of new sheets. I prefer to drive the same route to work. Those are quite basic fundamental examples of routine, the things you just do - a certain structure to your life. But I have little things I like to keep, even if they're inconsequential and innocuous. Like when I go to a pub quiz, I always like to choose the same quiz name - 'quiz on your face'.

But there's pros and cons to having a routine. Sometimes I can be happy and settled in what I'm doing, other times I feel like I need to do something unusual. Something that I've not done before. With repetition, you can get stuck in a rut. American Football is one of those albums I turn to when I feel that way. It's the perfect album to listen to on an autumn afternoon as you stare into space contemplating your life while thinking of hypothetical situations that'll never occur. Even though it's a great album to listen to when you're feeling unsatisfied, dissatisfied, confused, uncertain or lost it's also a fantastic album to listen to when you're flat out miserable. And that's exactly what Mike Kinsella is, or at least, that's what he is on this album.

American Football is an album that shattered all of my preconceived notions. Let me start off by saying that emo is a genre that I adore and I can't even tell you the misanthropy I feel when people associate the tag with corporate eye-liner wearing commercial bands like Fallout Boy. Not that I have anything against them, they have their target market and they cater to it, but people associate emo with music like that and that kind of music really doesn't have much substance to it, it doesn't have the raw honesty, it isn't emotionally affecting. I'd argue that's exactly the OPPOSITE of emo. Even though I feel really angry when people have the wrong idea about the genre, I think everyone has the wrong idea at one time or another. The emo tag/genre has been completely and utterly violated, and it's become less about the music and more about social trends and fashion. But there's no mistaking that actual emo is some of the greatest and most powerful music you'll ever hear. I said I wasn't going to have this rant ever again, because I've had it on a few albums, but it does serve a purpose.

I bring it up because at one time or another, everyone has the wrong idea. Even me. Then I thought I knew what emo was all about and sneered, even to this day, Cap'n Jazz IS emo. They're what the genre is about. They define and embody it. But even though I thought I knew the genre, when I listened to this, it shattered all of my illusions. American Football is one of the most emo albums without being conventional and atypical emo. Instead of the angsty loud post-hardcore, it's rhythmic, melodic, math rock meets indie meets emo full of softly vocals, confessional honest lyrics and interesting time signatures. It's rare to come across an album that's as heartfelt, sincere, emotionally stirring, honest, relatable, pessimistic, miserable and beautiful as this.